README.md, before:

# Test Coding Assignment

A simple web app allowing users to send emails, styled in the spirit of Apple Mail.

---

## ✅ Features Implemented

✅ Sidebar with list of emails in Apple Mail style  
✅ Search bar with backend filtering and 500ms debounce  
✅ Displays selected email details  
✅ Compose new email dialog with:
- To
- CC
- BCC
- Subject
- Body

✅ UI built with MUI  
✅ Backend built with Fastify, SQLite, and Knex.js  
✅ Seed data for quick testing

---

## Screenshots

Below is a screenshot showing the UI of the application:

![Email App Filtering](./frontend/public/screenshots/test_2.png)
![Email App Layout](./frontend/public/screenshots/test_1.png)
![Email App Compose Page](./frontend/public/screenshots/test_compose.png)

# Assignment:
Develop a simple web app allowing users to send emails. The app should have the following features:  
## 1. Sidebar
1. The main page should have a sidebar with a list of emails (Apple Mail style)
2. When selecting an email from the sidebar, the selected email should be displayed on the right side of the screen

## 2. Search bar
1. The sidebar should contain a search bar at the top
2. When typing text in the search bar, the list of emails in the sidebar should be filtered based on the search text
   * We should do the filtering on the backend
   * We should debounce the requests to the backend (i.e. wait for 500ms after the user stops typing before sending the request)
   * The search should return results where either the `to`, `cc`, `bcc`, `subject`, or `subject` fields contain the search text

## 3. Sending emails
The main page should have a button to compose a new email (placed at the bottom right corner of the screen). The following fields should be present in the compose email form:
   * To
   * CC
   * BCC
   * Subject
   * Body


# Notes:
1. No need to actually send the email - it's enough to save it in the database
2. Do not spend more than 1h on this assignment, just do as much as you can in that time
3. Please remove the `.next` folder before sending the task
4. Please remove the `dev.sqlite3` folder before sending the task
5. Please remove the `node_modules` folders before sending the task
6. Please remove any other ignored files before sending the task

# Structure
This is a monorepo. It has two folders:  
1. `frontend`: This is the frontend of the application. It is built using Next.js.  
2. `backend`: This is the backend of the application. It is built using Fastify.

# Setup
1. `cd frontend` - Go to the frontend folder
2. `yarn install` - Install the dependencies
3. `yarn dev` - Start the development server (http://localhost:3000)
4. `cd ../backend` - Go to the backend folder
5. `yarn install` - Install the dependencies
6. `yarn migrate` - Run the knex database migrations
7. `yarn seed` - Run the knex seed files with mock data
8. `yarn dev` - Start the development server (http://localhost:3001)


# Design
1. [MUI](https://mui.com/) is installed and used for the design of the frontend.

Commit message:

added delete functionality (Extra effort)

README.md, after:

# Test Coding Assignment

A simple web app allowing users to send emails, styled in the spirit of Apple Mail.

---

## ✅ Features Implemented

✅ Sidebar with list of emails in Apple Mail style  
✅ Search bar with backend filtering and 500ms debounce  
✅ Displays selected email details  
✅ Compose new email dialog with:
- To
- CC
- BCC
- Subject
- Body

✅ UI built with MUI  
✅ Backend built with Fastify, SQLite, and Knex.js  
✅ Seed data for quick testing

---

## 💡 Additional Notes (Extra Effort)

I added delete functionality as an extra effort beyond the original assignment.  

There are many other enhancements I could implement, like:
- Editing emails
- Pagination for large email lists
- User authentication
- Rich text editor for composing emails
- Tagging or categorizing emails
- Responsive mobile views

…but due to time constraints, I focused on the main requirements and a few extras to demonstrate additional capabilities.


## Screenshots

Below is a screenshot showing the UI of the application:

![Email App Filtering](./frontend/public/screenshots/test_2.png)
![Email App Layout](./frontend/public/screenshots/test_1.png)
![Email App Compose Page](./frontend/public/screenshots/test_compose.png)

# Assignment:
Develop a simple web app allowing users to send emails. The app should have the following features:  
## 1. Sidebar
1. The main page should have a sidebar with a list of emails (Apple Mail style)
2. When selecting an email from the sidebar, the selected email should be displayed on the right side of the screen

## 2. Search bar
1. The sidebar should contain a search bar at the top
2. When typing text in the search bar, the list of emails in the sidebar should be filtered based on the search text
   * We should do the filtering on the backend
   * We should debounce the requests to the backend (i.e. wait for 500ms after the user stops typing before sending the request)
   * The search should return results where either the `to`, `cc`, `bcc`, `subject`, or `subject` fields contain the search text

## 3. Sending emails
The main page should have a button to compose a new email (placed at the bottom right corner of the screen). The following fields should be present in the compose email form:
   * To
   * CC
   * BCC
   * Subject
   * Body


# Notes:
1. No need to actually send the email - it's enough to save it in the database
2. Do not spend more than 1h on this assignment, just do as much as you can in that time
3. Please remove the `.next` folder before sending the task
4. Please remove the `dev.sqlite3` folder before sending the task
5. Please remove the `node_modules` folders before sending the task
6. Please remove any other ignored files before sending the task

# Structure
This is a monorepo. It has two folders:  
1. `frontend`: This is the frontend of the application. It is built using Next.js.  
2. `backend`: This is the backend of the application. It is built using Fastify.

# Setup
1. `cd frontend` - Go to the frontend folder
2. `yarn install` - Install the dependencies
3. `yarn dev` - Start the development server (http://localhost:3000)
4. `cd ../backend` - Go to the backend folder
5. `yarn install` - Install the dependencies
6. `yarn migrate` - Run the knex database migrations
7. `yarn seed` - Run the knex seed files with mock data
8. `yarn dev` - Start the development server (http://localhost:3001)


# Design
1. [MUI](https://mui.com/) is installed and used for the design of the frontend.
